System-defined taxonomies architecture decisions (#56)
openedx/openedx-learning: docs/decisions/0012-system-taxonomy-creation.rst

12. System-defined Taxonomy & Tags creation
============================================

Context
--------

The System-defined are closed taxonomies created by the system. Some of this are totally static (e.g Language)
and some depends on a core data model (e.g. Organizations). It is necessary to define how to create and validate 
the System-defined taxonomies and their tags.

Decision
---------

Create a ``Content-side`` class that lives on ``openedx.features.tagging``.
You must create a content-side model for each content and taxonomy to be used.
You can use ``ContentSystemTaxonomyMixin`` and the mixin of the Taxonomy (e.g. ``LanguageSystemTaxonomy``) to create the new class.
Then, all system-defined taxonomies must be created initially in a fixture.

> Each Taxonomy mixin has ``get_tags``; to configure the valid tags, and ``validate_tags``; to check if a list of tags are valid.

Author: > From what I understand, most system taxonomies won't need to override get_tags. Language is an exception, since we're filtering down the available ISO languages using Django settings.LANGUAGES , but from what I understand, most system taxonomies won't need to do this.

@pomegranited Yes it's correct. I will update the docs so this is not misunderstood

> I'd removed validate_tags from the Taxonomy data architecture, and instead proposed just validating individual object tags with [validate_object_tag](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13zfsGDfomSTCp_G-_ncevQHAb4Y4UW0d_6N8R2PdHlA/edit#heading=h.78ofj8tmnjio).

Ohh Ok, Noted :+1:

We have two ways to handle tags in this type of taxonomies:

Hardcoded by fixtures/migrations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. If the tags don't change over the time, you can create all on a fixture (e.g Languages). 
#. If the tags change over the time, you can create all on a migration. If you edit, delete, or add new tags, you should also do it in a migration.

Free-form tags
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This taxonomy depends on a core data model, but simplifies the creation of Tags by allowing free-form tags,
but we can validate the tags using the ``validate_tags`` method. For example we can put the Author taxonomy associated with
the ``User`` model and use the ``ID`` field as tags. Also we can validate if an User still exists or has been deleted over time.

Rejected Options
-----------------

Auto-generated from the codebase
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Taxonomies that depend on a core data model and it is necessary to create a Tag for each object created.

Reviewer: nit: adding some justification here

```suggestion
Taxonomies that depend on a core data model could create a Tag for each eligible object. Maintaining this dynamic list of available Tags is cumbersome: we'd need triggers for creation, editing, and deletion. And if it's a large list of objects (e.g. Users), then copying that list into the Tag table is overkill. It is better to dynamically generate the list of available Tags, and/or dynamically validate a submitted object tag than to store the options in the database.
```

Author: Thanks!

12. System-defined Taxonomy & Tags creation
============================================

Context
--------

> The System-defined are closed taxonomies created by the system. Some of this are totally static (e.g Language)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
System-defined taxonomies are closed taxonomies created by the system. Some of these are totally static (e.g. Language)
```
